skills/prd/SKILL.md, before:

---
name: prd
description: "Generate a Product Requirements Document (PRD) for a new feature. Use when planning a feature, starting a new project, or when asked to create a PRD. Triggers on: create a prd, write prd for, plan this feature, requirements for, spec out."
---

# PRD Generator

Create detailed Product Requirements Documents that are clear, actionable, and suitable for implementation.

---

## The Job

1. Receive a feature description from the user
2. **Research** the landscape using sub-agents (researcher + librarian)
3. Ask 3-5 essential clarifying questions (with lettered options)
4. Generate a structured PRD informed by research
5. Save to `.features/{feature}/prd.md`

**Important:** Do NOT start implementing. Just create the PRD.

---

## Step 0: Research (Sub-agents)

Before asking clarifying questions, gather intelligence using sub-agents. Use the `subagent` tool in **parallel** to run both simultaneously:

- **Researcher**: Investigate the state of the art, common approaches, and best practices for the problem domain
- **Librarian**: Search for how relevant libraries/frameworks solve this, check APIs you'll likely integrate with

```
subagent({ tasks: [
  { agent: "researcher", task: "Research the state of the art for: {feature description}. Focus on common approaches, best practices, and trade-offs." },
  { agent: "librarian", task: "Search for how relevant libraries and frameworks handle: {feature description}. Show key APIs, patterns, and integration points." }
]})
```

**Use research findings to:**
- Inform clarifying questions (offer options based on what you found)
- Identify approaches the user may not have considered
- Spot potential pitfalls early
- Reference real-world implementations in the PRD

**When to skip research:** Trivial features, well-understood domains, or when the user explicitly says to skip it.

---

## Step 1: Clarifying Questions

Ask only critical questions where the initial prompt is ambiguous. Focus on:

- **Problem/Goal:** What problem does this solve?
- **Core Functionality:** What are the key actions?
- **Scope/Boundaries:** What should it NOT do?
- **Success Criteria:** How do we know it's done?

### Format Questions Like This:

```
1. What is the primary goal of this feature?
   A. Improve user onboarding experience
   B. Increase user retention
   C. Reduce support burden
   D. Other: [please specify]

2. Who is the target user?
   A. New users only
   B. Existing users only
   C. All users
   D. Admin users only

3. What is the scope?
   A. Minimal viable version
   B. Full-featured implementation
   C. Just the backend/API
   D. Just the UI
```

This lets users respond with "1A, 2C, 3B" for quick iteration.

---

## Step 2: PRD Structure

Generate the PRD with these sections:

### 1. Introduction/Overview

Brief description of the feature and the problem it solves.

### 2. Goals

Specific, measurable objectives (bullet list).

### 3. User Stories

Each story needs:

- **Title:** Short descriptive name
- **Description:** "As a [user], I want [feature] so that [benefit]"
- **Acceptance Criteria:** Verifiable checklist of what "done" means

Each story should be small enough to implement in one focused session.

**Format:**

```markdown
### US-001: [Title]

**Description:** As a [user], I want [feature] so that [benefit].

**BDD Spec:**
- Given: [precondition/context]
- When: [action taken]
- Then: [expected outcome]

**Acceptance Criteria:**

- [ ] Specific verifiable criterion
- [ ] Another criterion
- [ ] npm run typecheck passes
- [ ] **[UI stories only]** Verify in browser using agent-browser skill
```

**Important:**

- Acceptance criteria must be verifiable, not vague. "Works correctly" is bad. "Button shows confirmation dialog before deleting" is good.
- **For any story with UI changes:** Always include "Verify in browser using dev-browser skill" as acceptance criteria. This ensures visual verification of frontend work.

### 4. Functional Requirements

Numbered list of specific functionalities:

- "FR-1: The system must allow users to..."
- "FR-2: When a user clicks X, the system must..."

Be explicit and unambiguous.

### 5. Non-Goals (Out of Scope)

What this feature will NOT include. Critical for managing scope.

### 6. Design Considerations (Optional)

- UI/UX requirements
- Link to mockups if available
- Relevant existing components to reuse

### 7. Technical Considerations (Optional)

- Known constraints or dependencies
- Integration points with existing systems
- Performance requirements

### 8. Success Metrics

How will success be measured?

- "Reduce time to complete X by 50%"
- "Increase conversion rate by 10%"

### 9. Open Questions

Remaining questions or areas needing clarification.

---

## Writing for Junior Developers

The PRD reader may be a junior developer or AI agent. Therefore:

- Be explicit and unambiguous
- Avoid jargon or explain it
- Provide enough detail to understand purpose and core logic
- Number requirements for easy reference
- Use concrete examples where helpful

---

## Output

- **Format:** Markdown (`.md`)
- **Location:** `.features/{feature}/prd.md`
- **Feature folder:** kebab-case derived from feature name (e.g., "User Auth" → `.features/user-auth/prd.md`)

---

## Example PRD

```markdown
# PRD: Task Priority System

## Introduction

Add priority levels to tasks so users can focus on what matters most. Tasks can be marked as high, medium, or low priority, with visual indicators and filtering to help users manage their workload effectively.

## Goals

- Allow assigning priority (high/medium/low) to any task
- Provide clear visual differentiation between priority levels
- Enable filtering and sorting by priority
- Default new tasks to medium priority

## User Stories

### US-001: Add priority field to database

**Description:** As a developer, I need to store task priority so it persists across sessions.

**BDD Spec:**
- Given: The tasks table exists
- When: A new task is created without specifying priority
- Then: The task is saved with priority 'medium'

**Acceptance Criteria:**

- [ ] Add priority column to tasks table: 'high' | 'medium' | 'low' (default 'medium')
- [ ] Generate and run migration successfully
- [ ] npm run typecheck passes

### US-002: Display priority indicator on task cards

**Description:** As a user, I want to see task priority at a glance so I know what needs attention first.

**BDD Spec:**
- Given: A task with priority 'high' exists
- When: The task list is displayed
- Then: The task shows a red priority badge

**Acceptance Criteria:**

- [ ] Each task card shows colored priority badge (red=high, yellow=medium, gray=low)
- [ ] Badge includes color indicator: red=high, yellow=medium, gray=low
- [ ] Priority visible without hovering or clicking
- [ ] npm run typecheck passes
- [ ] Verify in browser using agent-browser skill

### US-003: Add priority selector to task edit

**Description:** As a user, I want to change a task's priority when editing it.

**BDD Spec:**
- Given: A task edit modal is open
- When: I select 'high' from the priority dropdown
- Then: The task priority is saved as 'high'

**Acceptance Criteria:**

- [ ] Priority dropdown in task edit modal
- [ ] Shows current priority as selected
- [ ] Saves immediately on selection change
- [ ] npm run typecheck passes
- [ ] Verify in browser using agent-browser skill

### US-004: Filter tasks by priority

**Description:** As a user, I want to filter the task list to see only high-priority items when I'm focused.

**BDD Spec:**
- Given: Tasks with mixed priorities exist
- When: I select 'High' from the priority filter
- Then: Only high-priority tasks are displayed

**Acceptance Criteria:**

- [ ] Filter dropdown with options: All | High | Medium | Low
- [ ] Filter persists in URL params
- [ ] Empty state message when no tasks match filter
- [ ] npm run typecheck passes
- [ ] Verify in browser using agent-browser skill

## Functional Requirements

- FR-1: Add `priority` field to tasks table ('high' | 'medium' | 'low', default 'medium')
- FR-2: Display colored priority badge on each task card
- FR-3: Include priority selector in task edit modal
- FR-4: Add priority filter dropdown to task list header
- FR-5: Sort by priority within each status column (high → medium → low)

## Non-Goals

- No priority-based notifications or reminders
- No automatic priority assignment based on due date
- No priority inheritance for subtasks

## Technical Considerations

- Reuse existing badge component with color variants
- Filter state managed via URL search params
- Priority stored in database, not computed

## Success Metrics

- Users can change priority in <2 clicks
- High-priority tasks immediately visible at top of lists
- No regression in task list performance

## Open Questions

- Should priority affect task ordering within a column?
- Should we add keyboard shortcuts for priority changes?
```

---

## Checklist

Before saving the PRD:

- [ ] Asked clarifying questions with lettered options
- [ ] Incorporated user's answers
- [ ] User stories are small and specific (one behavior each)
- [ ] Each user story has BDD spec (Given/When/Then)
- [ ] Functional requirements are numbered and unambiguous
- [ ] Non-goals section defines clear boundaries
- [ ] Saved to `.features/{feature}/prd.md`

---

## Next Step

After PRD is approved, create the technical design:

> Say **"create design"** to generate the technical design document using the design-solution skill.
> The design will be saved to `.features/{feature}/design.md` alongside the PRD.
> After design is approved, say **"create tasks"** to break it into implementable tasks.
> Then say **"run the loop"** to start autonomous execution.

Commit message:

new extension for feature and worktree support

skills/prd/SKILL.md, after:

---
name: prd
description: "Generate a Product Requirements Document (PRD) for a new feature. Use when planning a feature, starting a new project, or when asked to create a PRD. Triggers on: create a prd, write prd for, plan this feature, requirements for, spec out."
---

# PRD Generator

Create detailed Product Requirements Documents that are clear, actionable, and suitable for implementation.

---

## The Job

1. Receive a feature description from the user
2. **Research** the landscape using sub-agents (researcher + librarian)
3. Ask 3-5 essential clarifying questions (with lettered options)
4. Generate a structured PRD informed by research
5. Save to `.features/{feature}/prd.md`
6. Call `open_file` for the PRD you just created (`mode: "view"`) so the user can review it immediately

**Important:** Do NOT start implementing. Just create the PRD.

---

## Step 0: Research (Sub-agents)

Before asking clarifying questions, gather intelligence using sub-agents. Use the `subagent` tool in **parallel** to run both simultaneously:

- **Researcher**: Investigate the state of the art, common approaches, and best practices for the problem domain
- **Librarian**: Search for how relevant libraries/frameworks solve this, check APIs you'll likely integrate with

```
subagent({ tasks: [
  { agent: "researcher", task: "Research the state of the art for: {feature description}. Focus on common approaches, best practices, and trade-offs." },
  { agent: "librarian", task: "Search for how relevant libraries and frameworks handle: {feature description}. Show key APIs, patterns, and integration points." }
]})
```

**Use research findings to:**
- Inform clarifying questions (offer options based on what you found)
- Identify approaches the user may not have considered
- Spot potential pitfalls early
- Reference real-world implementations in the PRD

**When to skip research:** Trivial features, well-understood domains, or when the user explicitly says to skip it.

---

## Step 1: Clarifying Questions

Ask only critical questions where the initial prompt is ambiguous. Focus on:

- **Problem/Goal:** What problem does this solve?
- **Core Functionality:** What are the key actions?
- **Scope/Boundaries:** What should it NOT do?
- **Success Criteria:** How do we know it's done?

### Format Questions Like This:

```
1. What is the primary goal of this feature?
   A. Improve user onboarding experience
   B. Increase user retention
   C. Reduce support burden
   D. Other: [please specify]

2. Who is the target user?
   A. New users only
   B. Existing users only
   C. All users
   D. Admin users only

3. What is the scope?
   A. Minimal viable version
   B. Full-featured implementation
   C. Just the backend/API
   D. Just the UI
```

This lets users respond with "1A, 2C, 3B" for quick iteration.

---

## Step 2: PRD Structure

Generate the PRD with these sections:

### 1. Introduction/Overview

Brief description of the feature and the problem it solves.

### 2. Goals

Specific, measurable objectives (bullet list).

### 3. User Stories

Each story needs:

- **Title:** Short descriptive name
- **Description:** "As a [user], I want [feature] so that [benefit]"
- **Acceptance Criteria:** Verifiable checklist of what "done" means

Each story should be small enough to implement in one focused session.

**Format:**

```markdown
### US-001: [Title]

**Description:** As a [user], I want [feature] so that [benefit].

**BDD Spec:**
- Given: [precondition/context]
- When: [action taken]
- Then: [expected outcome]

**Acceptance Criteria:**

- [ ] Specific verifiable criterion
- [ ] Another criterion
- [ ] npm run typecheck passes
- [ ] **[UI stories only]** Verify in browser using agent-browser skill
```

**Important:**

- Acceptance criteria must be verifiable, not vague. "Works correctly" is bad. "Button shows confirmation dialog before deleting" is good.
- **For any story with UI changes:** Always include "Verify in browser using dev-browser skill" as acceptance criteria. This ensures visual verification of frontend work.

### 4. Functional Requirements

Numbered list of specific functionalities:

- "FR-1: The system must allow users to..."
- "FR-2: When a user clicks X, the system must..."

Be explicit and unambiguous.

### 5. Non-Goals (Out of Scope)

What this feature will NOT include. Critical for managing scope.

### 6. Design Considerations (Optional)

- UI/UX requirements
- Link to mockups if available
- Relevant existing components to reuse

### 7. Technical Considerations (Optional)

- Known constraints or dependencies
- Integration points with existing systems
- Performance requirements

### 8. Success Metrics

How will success be measured?

- "Reduce time to complete X by 50%"
- "Increase conversion rate by 10%"

### 9. Open Questions

Remaining questions or areas needing clarification.

---

## Writing for Junior Developers

The PRD reader may be a junior developer or AI agent. Therefore:

- Be explicit and unambiguous
- Avoid jargon or explain it
- Provide enough detail to understand purpose and core logic
- Number requirements for easy reference
- Use concrete examples where helpful

---

## Output

- **Format:** Markdown (`.md`)
- **Location:** `.features/{feature}/prd.md`
- **Feature folder:** kebab-case derived from feature name (e.g., "User Auth" → `.features/user-auth/prd.md`)
- **After saving:** Call `open_file({ path: ".features/{feature}/prd.md", mode: "view" })`

---

## Example PRD

```markdown
# PRD: Task Priority System

## Introduction

Add priority levels to tasks so users can focus on what matters most. Tasks can be marked as high, medium, or low priority, with visual indicators and filtering to help users manage their workload effectively.

## Goals

- Allow assigning priority (high/medium/low) to any task
- Provide clear visual differentiation between priority levels
- Enable filtering and sorting by priority
- Default new tasks to medium priority

## User Stories

### US-001: Add priority field to database

**Description:** As a developer, I need to store task priority so it persists across sessions.

**BDD Spec:**
- Given: The tasks table exists
- When: A new task is created without specifying priority
- Then: The task is saved with priority 'medium'

**Acceptance Criteria:**

- [ ] Add priority column to tasks table: 'high' | 'medium' | 'low' (default 'medium')
- [ ] Generate and run migration successfully
- [ ] npm run typecheck passes

### US-002: Display priority indicator on task cards

**Description:** As a user, I want to see task priority at a glance so I know what needs attention first.

**BDD Spec:**
- Given: A task with priority 'high' exists
- When: The task list is displayed
- Then: The task shows a red priority badge

**Acceptance Criteria:**

- [ ] Each task card shows colored priority badge (red=high, yellow=medium, gray=low)
- [ ] Badge includes color indicator: red=high, yellow=medium, gray=low
- [ ] Priority visible without hovering or clicking
- [ ] npm run typecheck passes
- [ ] Verify in browser using agent-browser skill

### US-003: Add priority selector to task edit

**Description:** As a user, I want to change a task's priority when editing it.

**BDD Spec:**
- Given: A task edit modal is open
- When: I select 'high' from the priority dropdown
- Then: The task priority is saved as 'high'

**Acceptance Criteria:**

- [ ] Priority dropdown in task edit modal
- [ ] Shows current priority as selected
- [ ] Saves immediately on selection change
- [ ] npm run typecheck passes
- [ ] Verify in browser using agent-browser skill

### US-004: Filter tasks by priority

**Description:** As a user, I want to filter the task list to see only high-priority items when I'm focused.

**BDD Spec:**
- Given: Tasks with mixed priorities exist
- When: I select 'High' from the priority filter
- Then: Only high-priority tasks are displayed

**Acceptance Criteria:**

- [ ] Filter dropdown with options: All | High | Medium | Low
- [ ] Filter persists in URL params
- [ ] Empty state message when no tasks match filter
- [ ] npm run typecheck passes
- [ ] Verify in browser using agent-browser skill

## Functional Requirements

- FR-1: Add `priority` field to tasks table ('high' | 'medium' | 'low', default 'medium')
- FR-2: Display colored priority badge on each task card
- FR-3: Include priority selector in task edit modal
- FR-4: Add priority filter dropdown to task list header
- FR-5: Sort by priority within each status column (high → medium → low)

## Non-Goals

- No priority-based notifications or reminders
- No automatic priority assignment based on due date
- No priority inheritance for subtasks

## Technical Considerations

- Reuse existing badge component with color variants
- Filter state managed via URL search params
- Priority stored in database, not computed

## Success Metrics

- Users can change priority in <2 clicks
- High-priority tasks immediately visible at top of lists
- No regression in task list performance

## Open Questions

- Should priority affect task ordering within a column?
- Should we add keyboard shortcuts for priority changes?
```

---

## Checklist

Before saving the PRD:

- [ ] Asked clarifying questions with lettered options
- [ ] Incorporated user's answers
- [ ] User stories are small and specific (one behavior each)
- [ ] Each user story has BDD spec (Given/When/Then)
- [ ] Functional requirements are numbered and unambiguous
- [ ] Non-goals section defines clear boundaries
- [ ] Saved to `.features/{feature}/prd.md`
- [ ] Opened `.features/{feature}/prd.md` with `open_file` in `view` mode

---

## Next Step

After PRD is reviewed and approved, create the technical design:

> Say **"create design"** (or **"pro"**) to generate the technical design document using the design-solution skill.
> The design will be saved to `.features/{feature}/design.md` alongside the PRD.
> After design is approved, say **"create tasks"** to break it into implementable tasks.
> Then say **"run the loop"** to start autonomous execution.
